# Pythia8-Dark Photon and Higgs Plus Plus Event Production

This packages is designed to perform GEN-only private MC productions using the CMSSW Pythia8 release that is included in the working CMSSW release. It also includes basic TTree-making files and simplistic histogramming that is intended primarly as a starting point to springboard to do whatever specific plotting is desired.

# Updated Instructions to Run EventGenerator
These instructions were most recently updated by George Bayliss on 7/18/22.

All commands should be run from MCGeneration/test.

Try running the generator executable using cmsRun.

```
cmsRun EventGenerator_edm_cfg.py
```
The terminal will then prompt you for 
1. A value for the maximum amount of events. (You probably want a low number for your first run as large values can take a long time to run).
2. A global tag. All the options should display in the terminal.
3. A pythia settings file. There are two of these text files, dpPythiaParameters.txt and hppPythiaParameters.txt, corresponding to Dark Photons and Higgs Plus Plus respectively.
4. A root output file. 

Once you input all of these you should see output on the screen, however be patient as it can take a minute or two to run the first time.

Now, you can expedite this process by inputing the parameters in the cmsRun command:

```
cmsRun EventGenerator_edm_cfg.py maxEvents=1000 globalTagName=Run2 pythiaSettingsFileName=dpPythiaParameters.txt outputFileName=output.root
```
Of course, there are many more settings you can change and you can find all the options at the top of EventGenerator_edm_cfg and also in mcCommandLineOptions_cfi and ledMcCmndLineOptions_cfi which are located in the python directory.

Finally, you can clearly see that running this file creates a lot of screen output. If you wish to redirect this to a .txt file and run it in the background, you can do it like so:

```
cmsRun EventGenerator_edm_cfg.py maxEvents=1000 globalTagName=Run2 pythiaSettingsFileName=dpPythiaParameters.txt outputFileName=output.root &> outFile.txt &
```

Note that when doing this you must input all of the above parameters in the command line as the terminal will no longer prompt you for them.

# Updated Instructions to Run HistGenerator

To run HistGenerator you simply put:
```
cmsRun HistGenerator_cfg.py
```
Running this command prompts you for an input file which would be root file you generated from EventGenerator.

Once again you can input a file directly through the command line:
```
cmsRun HistGenerator_cfg.py inputFileName=output.root
```
The file generated will be called "histograms_[inputFileName].root", in this case "histograms_output.root"

To view the histograms you need to open a TBrowser:
```
root histograms_output.root
TBrowser root
```

HistGenerator_cfg.py runs Dimuon.cc, which is a file in the plugins directoy. 

Dimuon.cc, is a C++ file which contains the directions for analyzing the file generated by EventGenerator_edm_cfg.py and you can make edits to this file to obtain different information. You should also see oldDimuon.cc.old which contains Shawn's orginal code if you want to see what he used.

NOTE: If you get an error saying that the plugin "Dimuon.cc" is not found, try compiling from the MCGeneration directory. 
